At Scale You Will Hit Every Performance Issue. I used to think I knew a bit about performance scalability and how to keep things trucking when you hit large amounts of data. Truth is I know diddly squat on the subject since the most I have ever done is read about how it's done. To understand how I came about realizing this you need some background. Richard Stallman to visit Australia. I'm not usually one to promote events and the like unless I feel there is a genuine benefit to be had by attending, but this one stands out. Richard M Stallman, the guru of Free Software, is coming Down Under to hold a talk. You can read about him here. MySQL Backups Done Easily. One thing that comes up a lot on sites like Stackoverflow and the like is how to backup MySQL databases. The first answer is usually to use `mysqldump`. This is all fine and good till you start to want to dump multiple databases. You can do this all in one like using the all databases option; however, this makes restoring a single database an issue since you have to parse out the parts you want, which can be a pain. Why You Shouldn't roll your own CAPTCHA. At a TechEd I attended a few years ago, I was watching a presentation about security presented by Rocky Heckman (read his blog, it's quite good). In it, he was talking about security algorithms. The part that really stuck with me went like this: The Great Benefit of Test Driven Development Nobody Talks About. The feeling of productivity because you are writing lots of code. Think about that for a moment. Ask any developer who wants to develop why they became a developer. One of the first things that comes up is, "I enjoy writing code." This is one of the things that I personally enjoy doing. Writing code, any code, especially when it's solving my current problem, makes me feel productive. It makes me feel like I'm getting somewhere. It's empowering. Setting up GIT to use a Subversion SVN style workflow. Moving from Subversion SVN to GIT can be a little confusing at first. I think the biggest thing I noticed was that GIT doesn't have a specific workflow; you have to pick your own. Personally, I wanted to stick to my Subversion-like workflow with a central server, which all my machines would pull and push to. Since it took a while to set up, I thought I would throw up a blog post on how to do it. Why CAPTCHA Never Use Numbers 0, 1, 5, 7. Interestingly, this sort of question pops up a lot in my referring search term stats: "Why CAPTCHAs never use the numbers 0, 1, 5, 7." It's a relatively simple question with a reasonably simple answer. It's because each of the above numbers is easy to confuse with a letter.